[MUSIC PLAYING]
ROB DODSON: Hey
there, Polycasters.
Rob here.
Welcome back to the show.
So today, we're going to
complete our three-part series
on building
accessible components
by talking about labeling.
Labeling is super
important for accessibility
because it allows us to tell
the user what a control is for.
And let me show you an example
to explain what I mean by that.
So over here, I've
got JS Bin set up.
And I'm just going
to start creating
a bit of a form element.
So I'll drop in an input tag.
And you can see, cool,
I've got a text input.
What am I going to ask
the user for, though?
Well, I'll add a label.
And I'm just going to wrap
that label around the input.
And I will say, hey,
I would like to know
the user's shipping address.
So anyone filling out a
form who is a sighted user
will be able to go
through and see, OK,
there's a text input field.
There's a label here.
I'm assuming these
two are associated.
And because I have used
nice, semantic HTML
and I've built this
relationship between the label
element and the
input, check out what
happens to my screen reader
when I interact with this thing.
SCREEN READER:
VoiceOver on Chrome,
check Shipping
Address, edit text.
ROB DODSON: Nice.
So we've created that
alternative interface
for our users who
rely on screen readers
because we've built this
nice, semantic relationship.
Now, the tricky bit here is
that the label element only
works with a handful of tags.
So if we're building
a custom element,
we're going to have to come up
with our own way of labeling
it and providing that sort of
accessible name to our users.
So let's go check out the
ARIA Authoring Best Practices
guide to maybe get some hints
on how we could do this.
So switching over
to that document,
I'm going to go to
the Checkbox section.
And if I scroll
down to the bottom,
the second bullet
point here says
that the checkbox should have
an accessible label, preferably
provided by a visible
label associated
using aria-labelledby.
Now, we haven't really talked
about aria-labelledby yet,
but now seems like a really
great time to cover that topic.
So in the world of ARIA,
there's really three ways
that we can label something.
There's aria-label,
sort of the singular,
which is for basically applying
a text alternative directly
to an element.
There's aria-labelledby,
where we can actually
have another element and sort
of reference that element
and use that as our label.
And then in some
instances, we can actually
generate a label or a name
for an element just based
on its content.
And we're going to cover
all three of those today.
So let me start by talking about
aria-label because that one's
pretty easy and
straightforward to explain.
I'm going to switch
over to my code editor.
And here is our dash checkbox
from the previous episode.
And I'm just going to give
it an aria-label attribute.
And we'll say the value
is going to be Sign Up.
So we're assuming the
user checks this checkbox
and they're signing
up for something.
So we switch over to Chrome.
We refresh the page.
Now, if we look at this
checkbox now in the dev tools,
we can see that aria-label
has been applied here.
And let's check out what happens
when I interact with this
using my screen reader.
SCREEN READER: Sign up.
Uncheck checkbox.
ROB DODSON: So you heard the
screen reader say, "Sign up.
Uncheck checkbox," right?
It has generated a name based
on that aria-label attribute.
But we don't have a
visible label on screen.
So we could add a visible
label on screen using something
like a span, but now we're kind
of duplicating our work there.
Maybe a better approach
would be to use something
like aria-labelledby.
So let me show you
how that works.
We'll go back to
our code editor.
We'll get rid of this
aria-label attribute.
I'm going to add a span here.
I'll say "sign up" in that span.
And the way
aria-label works is it
takes an ID reference
to another element
to use that as its label.
So I'll give span
here an ID of sign
up label, something like that.
And then we'll take
our dash checkbox
and we'll say aria-labelledby
equals sign up label.
So now we've linked these two
together by that ID reference.
We go back.
We refresh the page.
You can see the CSS, the
height is a little off, right?
This thing is not
quite centered.
That's easy enough to fix.
But we do have a visible label
on screen now, which is good.
And let's look at
what happens when
we activate our screen reader.
SCREEN READER: VoiceOver
on Chrome, dash sign up.
Uncheck checkbox.
ROB DODSON: So you heard there
that now it's saying, "Sign up.
Uncheck checkbox."
OK.
This is great.
This is basically what we want.
But it is a little
burdensome to have
to ask everyone who's using our
checkbox to also include a span
and create this label
linkage between the two.
One final approach
that we could take
is to actually have
the checkbox's name
generated by its content.
Now, this works for
smaller elements--
a checkbox, a radio button,
something like that.
It wouldn't work so well
for really large elements,
like an article or some
big landmarks like that.
But for something really
small, a little controlled,
this technique could work.
So going back to
my code editor, I'm
going to get rid of that span.
I'm going to get rid of
the aria-labelledby here.
So we'll nuke these.
And we'll go to our dash
checkbox definition.
And right now, we're
using the host selector
to draw a rectangle
around our element.
And then when it is
aria-checked true,
we're putting a little
check mark inside of it.
And so we're going to
need to add a little bit
of additional markup.
We're going to need
to actually have
that rectangle and that
checkbox over in a container.
And then we're going to need
to have another element, which
will act as our label.
So I'm going to add a
little bit of HTML here.
Let's see.
So I'll drop in a div.
I'll call this first
div-- let's see.
We'll call it
checkbox container.
That's going to hold
our actual check mark.
I'm going to make
another div here.
And we'll call this
one-- let's see.
We'll do checkbox label.
And then I'm just going
to replace the CSS
that I have here with some
updated CSS, some updated
styles.
Let's walk through
these really quick.
So what I've done is
I've kept the host
style of just making sure this
whole element is inline block.
The checkbox container
now has the styles
for drawing our rectangle.
When the host has
aria-checked applied,
the checkbox container
will actually
get the check mark inside of it.
And then the
checkbox label, we're
just differentiating it
by bumping the font size
up a little bit and making
sure that both of these
are set to vertical
align middle.
So that way, the
text and the checkbox
look nice and centered.
The last thing I want to do is
inside of this checkbox label,
I'm going to add
a content element.
And what this is going to let
me do is in my index file inside
of dash checkbox, now I can
just write my label right
inside the element like that.
It's going to project that
into that element's shadow dom.
And then the browser
should be able to compute
the element's name or its
label based on that content.
So let's check that out.
We'll go back to Chrome.
We'll refresh the page.
You can see that the text
is little bit bigger.
It's centered now.
We turn on our screen reader
and let's see what happens.
SCREEN READER:
VoiceOver on Chrome.
Sign up.
Uncheck checkbox.
ROB DODSON: So there we go.
We've got a slightly
nicer, easier way
to give our user a label.
Another really cool
thing about this
is that since the label is
now inside of the element
itself, when I
click on the label,
it also focuses and
activates the element.
And this is something
that you see
with native elements, native
input, native checkbox, when
you associate them with
a native label element.
So now we've created a
very similar association
with our custom element
here, which is really nice.
So that about
covers it for today.
There's always more
to talk about when
we touch on accessibility.
But hopefully now you
have a better foundational
understanding of how these
things work in the platform.
If you have any more
questions, though, I'm
always happy to answer them.
So please leave them for me
down below in the comments.
Or you can reach me on a
social network of your choosing
at #AskPolymer.
As always, thank you
so much for watching
and I'll see you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]